Piscine Mobile - 0
Introduction to Mobile Development
Summary: This document contains the subject matter for Module00 of the Piscine
Mobile.
Version: 2.3Contents
I
II
Instructions
2
Introduction
II.1
What is a mobile application? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
II.2
What is Flutter? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
3
3
3
IIIExercise 00: A basic display4
IVExercise 01: Say Hello to the World6
VExercise 02: More Buttons8
VIExercise 03: It’s Alive!10
VIISubmission and peer-evaluation12
1Chapter I
Instructions
• Only this page will serve as reference. Do not trust rumors.
• Read attentively the whole document before beginning.
• Your exercises will be corrected by your piscine colleagues.
• The document can be relied upon, do not blindly trust the demos or pictures ex-
ample which can contain not required additions.
• Got a question? Ask your peer on the right. Otherwise, try your peer on the left.
• By Odin, by Thor ! Use your brain !!!
Intra indicates the date and the hour of closing for your
repositories. This date and hour also corresponds to the beginning
of the peer-evaluation period for the corresponding piscine day.
This peer-evaluation period lasts exactly 24h. After 24h passed,
your missing peer grades will be completed with a 0.
2Chapter II
Introduction
II.1
What is a mobile application?
A mobile application is a software program designed to run on mobile devices, such as
personal digital assistants, enterprise digital assistants, or mobile phones.
These applications can either be pre-installed on phones during manufacturing or deliv-
ered as web applications using server-side or client-side processing.
Mobile applications often differ from desktop applications, which run on desktop com-
puters, and web applications, which run in mobile web browsers rather than directly on
the mobile device.
II.2
What is Flutter?
Flutter is Google’s mobile UI framework for crafting high-quality native interfaces on iOS
and Android in record time.
Flutter works with existing code, is used by developers and organizations around the
world, and is free and open source.
3Chapter III
Exercise 00: A basic display
Exercise :
A basic display
Turn-in directory : mobileModule00
Files to turn in : ex00 and all necessary files
Forbidden functions : None
As explained in the main project, we are using Flutter for these
projects, so we will sometimes use terms specific to this framework.
It is up to you to adapt and find the equivalent in the framework you
choose to use.
For your first exercise, you will need to create a new ex00 project using the tools provided
by the framework of your choice.
If you are using Flutter, it is important to understand the structure of a Flutter project
and, for this exercise, what widgets are and their different states.
For now, your project must contain a single page with some widgets:
• A text widget with a button below it, both centered horizontally and vertically.
• When the button is clicked, you must display “Button pressed” in the debug console.
• Your application must be responsive.
4Piscine Mobile - 0
Introduction to Mobile Development
It should look something like this:
5Chapter IV
Exercise 01: Say Hello to the World
Exercise :
Say Hello to the World
Turn-in directory : mobileModule00
Files to turn in : ex01 and all necessary files
Forbidden functions : None
For this exercise, you will need to retrieve the code from your
previous exercise and create a new ex01 project.
Now you will need to ensure that the text displayed in the application changes when you
click the button.
It should display “Hello World!” instead of the initial text.
Each time you click the button, the text should toggle between the initial text and “Hello
World!”.
6Piscine Mobile - 0
Introduction to Mobile Development
7Chapter V
Exercise 02: More Buttons
Exercise :
More Buttons
Turn-in directory : mobileModule00
Files to turn in : ex02 and all necessary files
Forbidden functions : None
Now that you understand the basics of displaying text and buttons, create a new project
called ex02.
In this new project, display an AppBar at the top of your screen with the title “Calculator”.
Like this:
You also need to add two TextFields (one to display the expression and one to display
the result) and several buttons. For now, just display “0” inside both TextFields; you
will handle this in the next exercise.
8Piscine Mobile - 0
Introduction to Mobile Development
Buttons:
• Numbers from 0 to 9.
• “.” for decimal numbers.
• “AC” to reset the expression and result.
• “C” to delete the last character of the expression.
• “=” to display the result of the expression.
• Operators: “+”, “-”, “*”, “/”.
Add a debug feature. For each button you press, display the text of the button in the
debug console.
Once all the buttons are properly set, make sure the display is responsive for all devices
(phone, tablet, etc.).
You should have something like this:
9Chapter VI
Exercise 03: It’s Alive!
Exercise :
It’s Alive!
Turn-in directory : mobileModule00
Files to turn in : calculator_app and all necessary files
Forbidden functions : None
For this exercise, you will need to retrieve the code from your
previous exercise and create the calculator_app project. You can use
the math_expressions library or an equivalent library.
Now it’s time to make your calculator work!
You need to add the logic behind it.
The TextFields created in the previous exercise must now display the expression and the
result of the expression.
• You must be able to perform the following operations:
◦ Addition
◦ Subtraction
◦ Multiplication
◦ Division
• You can perform multiple operations in one expression (e.g., 1 + 2 * 3 - 5 / 2).
• You must be able to enter a negative number (by pressing the “-” button before
the number).
• You must be able to enter decimal numbers.
10Piscine Mobile - 0
Introduction to Mobile Development
• You must be able to delete the last character of the expression.
• You must be able to clear the whole expression and result.
Your result could look something like this:
Be careful—if you don’t thoroughly test your code, you might encounter issues. For ex-
ample, an incorrect expression, division by 0, or very large numbers can cause problems.
Your application must NEVER crash!
11Chapter VII
Submission and peer-evaluation
Turn in your assignment in your Git repository as usual. Only the work inside your repos-
itory will be evaluated during the defense. Don’t hesitate to double check the names of
your folders and files to ensure they are correct.
The evaluation process will happen on the computer of the evaluated
group.